[Doc] Add Ray core fault tolerance guide for GCS and node (#33446)
ray-project/ray: doc/source/ray-core/fault_tolerance/gcs.rst

.. _fault-tolerance-gcs:

GCS Fault Tolerance
===================

Global Control Service (GCS) is a server that manages cluster-level metadata, such as locations of :ref:`actors <ray-remote-classes>`.

> It also provides a handful of cluster-level operations including :ref:`placement group <ray-placement-group-doc-ref>` scheduling and nodes management.

Reviewer: I think we should also mention node management.

I categorize GCS functions into these:
- Node management
  - health check/register
  - resource broadcasting
- Scheduling/collaboration
  -  Actors/PGs
- Metastore for everything
- Others (might not need to mention)
  - Function manager
  - API server
  - ...

By default, GCS is not fault tolerant since all the data is stored in-memory and its failure means that the entire Ray cluster fails.
To make GCS fault tolerant, HA storage is required. Ray supports Redis as the backend storage for durability and high availability. Then, when GCS restarts, it loads all the data from the Redis instance and resumes regular functions.

During the recovery period, the following functions are not available:

- Actor creation, deletion and reconstruction.
- Placement group creation, deletion and reconstruction.
- Resource management.
- Worker node registration.
- Worker process creation.

> But the running Ray tasks and actors remain alive and any existing objects will continue to be available.

Reviewer: If the GCS is dead for a long time, Raylet will exit. 
https://sourcegraph.com/github.com/ray-project/ray@master/-/blob/src/ray/common/ray_config_def.h?L420:21

Author: Yea, I mentioned later in this doc.

.. _fault-tolerance-gcs:

GCS Fault Tolerance
===================

Global Control Service (GCS) is a server that manages cluster-level metadata.

> It also provides a handful of cluster-level operations including :ref:`actor <ray-remote-classes>`, :ref:`placement group <ray-placement-group-doc-ref>` and node management.

Reviewer: Maybe also mention node management?

Author: I already mentioned node management. Is there anything else you want to add?

By default, GCS is not fault tolerant since all the data is stored in-memory and its failure means that the entire Ray cluster fails.

> To make GCS fault tolerant, HA storage is required. Ray supports Redis as the backend storage for durability and high availability.

Reviewer: `high availability.` do you mean the storage has to be HA?

Author: Good question. Should we mention HA? For FT, theoretically durability is enough?

Reviewer: > Ray supports Redis as the backend storage for durability and high availability.

My confusing part is that whether durability and high availability is for Ray or Redis.
Like Redis needs to be durability and high availability. Or with redis Ray will be durability and high availability.

Then, when GCS restarts, it loads all the data from the Redis instance and resumes regular functions.

During the recovery period, the following functions are not available:

- Actor creation, deletion and reconstruction.
- Placement group creation, deletion and reconstruction.
- Resource management.
- Worker node registration.
- Worker process creation.

But the running Ray tasks and actors remain alive and any existing objects will continue to be available.

> Setting up Redis

Reviewer: Better mention https://github.com/ray-project/ray/blob/master/src/ray/common/ray_config_def.h#L737

This is a logical isolation layer for data stored in the DB

.. _fault-tolerance-gcs:

GCS Fault Tolerance
===================

Global Control Service (GCS) is a server that manages cluster-level metadata.

> It also provides a handful of cluster-level operations including :ref:`actor <ray-remote-classes>`, :ref:`placement group <ray-placement-group-doc-ref>` and node management.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It also provides a handful of cluster-level operations including :ref:`actor <ray-remote-classes>`, :ref:`placement groups <ray-placement-group-doc-ref>` and node management.
```

> By default, GCS is not fault tolerant since all the data is stored in-memory and its failure means that the entire Ray cluster fails.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By default, the GCS is not fault tolerant since all the data is stored in-memory and its failure means that the entire Ray cluster fails.
```

> To make GCS fault tolerant, HA Redis is required.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To make the GCS fault tolerant, HA Redis is required.
```

> Then, when GCS restarts, it loads all the data from the Redis instance and resumes regular functions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Then, when the GCS restarts, it loads all the data from the Redis instance and resumes regular functions.
```

During the recovery period, the following functions are not available:

- Actor creation, deletion and reconstruction.
- Placement group creation, deletion and reconstruction.
- Resource management.
- Worker node registration.
- Worker process creation.

> But the running Ray tasks and actors remain alive and any existing objects will continue to be available.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
However, running Ray tasks and actors remain alive and any existing objects will continue to be available.
```

.. tabbed:: ray start

    If you are using :ref:`ray start <ray-start-doc>` to start the Ray head node,
    set the OS environment ``RAY_REDIS_ADDRESS`` to
    the Redis address, and supply the ``--redis-password`` flag with the password when calling ``ray start``:

    .. code-block:: shell

      RAY_REDIS_ADDRESS=redis_ip:port ray start --head --redis-password PASSWORD

.. tabbed:: ray up

    If you are using :ref:`ray up <ray-up-doc>` to start the Ray cluster, change :ref:`head_start_ray_commands <cluster-configuration-head-start-ray-commands>` field to add ``RAY_REDIS_ADDRESS`` and ``--redis-password`` to the ``ray start`` command:

    .. code-block:: yaml

      head_start_ray_commands:
        - ray stop
        - ulimit -n 65536; RAY_REDIS_ADDRESS=redis_ip:port ray start --head --redis-password PASSWORD --port=6379 --object-manager-port=8076 --autoscaling-config=~/ray_bootstrap_config.yaml --dashboard-host=0.0.0.0

.. tabbed:: Kubernetes

    If you are using Kubernetes but not :ref:`KubeRay <kuberay-index>`, please refer to :ref:`this doc <deploy-a-static-ray-cluster-without-kuberay>`.

> Once GCS is backed by Redis, when it restarts, it'll recover the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once the GCS is backed by Redis, when it restarts, it'll recover the
```
